# AUV
USC AUV Code

 	The software team for AUV at USC spent the last year focusing on writing all of the necessary code to get the vehicle safely moving in the water. Although our goal was simple, we had plenty of challenges this year that made many tasks difficult to complete.
Due to a lack of documentation from previous years and reusable code from USCTurtle, the software team had no code they could use from previous years and had to spend most of their time researching and developing the basic code architecture of the sub. This included setting up the computer vision using Yolo and ORB to detect objects and their features as well as developing the control system for the sub in simulation software. The software team had to rely on simulation software to develop most of the software for the vehicle since our teams didn't have access to a functioning sub due to our previous sub, USCTurtle, being non-functional and the electrical and mechanical parts of Manta being under development until early July 2023. This required the software team to develop most of the software for the sub using simulation through UUV Simulator, which gave us a platform based on Gazebo and ROS to create and test various control systems using simulated actuators and sensors.  Despite the software team's lack of experience with Gazebo, ROS, and control theory we were still able to simulate our sub in UUV Simulator and develop a ROS architecture that could be used for the actual Manta vehicle. So although the software team faced numerous issues, we were still able to create the necessary software to get Manta safely moving in the water and significantly improve the documentation of our vehicle for future AUV at USC members.
